.TH $G_0W_0$ "" "" "band structure with an energy\-dependent scissors operator"
.SH Background
.PP
Standard functionals (LDA and GGA), systematically underestimate band
gaps, giving values that are about 30\-40% smaller than experimental
data.
The inability of standard Kohn\-Sham (KS) theory to give band gaps close
to experiment is often referred to as the \f[B]band\-gap problem\f[].
From a theoretical point of view this is not surprising since KS
eigenvalues are not supposed to give the correct band energies.
The band structure of a crystal is rigorously defined as the energies
needed to add or subtract electrons from the many\-body system which, in
turn, are related to the difference between total energies of many\-body
states differing by one electron.
.PP
An alternative, more traditional, approach to the study of
exchange\-correlation effects in many\-body systems is provided by
Many\-Body Perturbation Theory (MBPT) which defines a rigorous approach
to the description of excited\-state properties, based on the
Green\[aq]s function formalism.
In this lesson, we discuss how to use the MBPT part of ABINIT to compute
the band\-structure of silicon within the so\-called $G_0W_0$
approximation.
.PP
For a very brief introduction see
MBPTNNOTES (http://www.abinit.org/documentation/helpfiles/for-v7.10/tutorial/theory_mbt.html).
.SH Related ABINIT variables
.RS
.IP \[bu] 2
optdriver
.IP \[bu] 2
ecuteps
.IP \[bu] 2
ecutsigx
.RE
.PP
More info on the input variables and their use can be obtained using the
following function:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
lesson.abinit_help(inputvariable)
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
This will print the official abinit description of this variables.
.PP
To open the python script in ipython use:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
%load\ $lesson.pyfile
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.SH The abipy flows of this lesson
.PP
In this lesson, we will construct an abipy flow made of two works.
The first work is a standard KS band\-structure calculation that
consists of an initial GS calculation to get the density followed by two
NSCF calculations.
The first NSCF task computes the KS eigenvalues on a high\-symmetry path
in the BZ, whereas the second NSCF task is done on a homogeneous k\-mesh
so that one can calculate the DOS from the KS eigenvalues.
These two NSCF tasks
.PP
The second work represents a GW workflow in which we read the density
computed in the first task of the previous work to obtain and compute
the KS eigenvalues and eigenvectors for many empty states.
The WFK file produced in this step is then used to compute the screened
interaction $W$.
Finally we do a self\-energy calculation in which we use the $W$
produced in the previous step and the WFK file to compute the matrix
elements of the self\-energy and the $G_0W_0$ corrections for all the
k\-points in the IBZ and 8 bands (4 occupied + 4 empty)
.PP
Once the flow is completed, we can post\-process the results and compute
the $G_0W_0$ band\-structure of silicon with a scissors operator.
.SH The course of this lesson
.PP
This lesson can be started in ipython by importing it:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
from\ abipy.lessons.lesson_g0w0\ import\ Lesson()
lesson\ =\ Lesson()
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
The lesson is now imported in your ipython session in its own namespace
\[aq]lesson\[aq].
This object now gives us all the tools to follow this lesson.
As before:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
lesson
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
displays this lessons information text.
This lesson provides a factory function that returns a flow designed to
perform a standard G0W0 calculation.
.PP
In the previous lesson we have actually been running job directly on the
frontend.
These calculations were so small that this was not a problem.
GW calculations, however, (even the underconverged examples we are using
here) are much more involved.
To run submit calculations to the actual worknodes of the cluster we
only need to provide abipy with different manager settings.
First have a look at the current manager.yml file.
This one tells abipy what it needs to know to run shell jobs.
Next copy the file we prepared for this cluster:
.PP
cp /data/euspec/doc/abinit\-templates/manager_viper.yml.
.PP
Have a look at this file as well.
It may look complicated but if fact it is just a translation of the user
manual of the cluster.
For a new cluster one person has to create it once.
Also note the it only mentions which queueing systems is installed how
to use this systems is programmed in abipy.
To use this manager move it to manager.yml.
(abipy will first look for a manager file in you current folder and
secondly in ~/.abinit/abipy, so you can put one there an don\[aq]t
bother about it for every calculation)
.PP
displays this lessons information text, and can be recalled at any
moment.
The main object we use to pack (connected series of) calculations is a
flow.
This lesson provides a method that returns a flow designed to perform
k\-point convergence studies.
.PP
This flow is made by the command:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
flow\ =\ lesson.make_g0w0_scissors_flow()
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
flow is now an object that contains al the information needed to
generate abinit inputs.
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
flow.show_inputs()
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
will display all the inputs as they will be \[aq]given\[aq] to abinit.
In previous lessons we ran the flows each time directly inside ipython.
For relatively small calculations this is very practical.
There are however other ways more suited for large calculations.
.PP
To start the execution of calculations packed in this flow we use the
following command:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
flow.make_scheduler().start()
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
This starts the actual execution via a scheduler.
.PP
The last step of analyzing the results can be done again in with a
single command:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
flow.analyze()
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
This method of flow will open the necessary output files, retrieve the
data, and produce a plot.
.PP
Finally, once you are through with this lesson and exited ipython:
.RS
.IP
.nf
\f[C]
exit
\f[]
.fi
.RE
.PP
You can see that in the directory that you were working there is now a
subdir were the calculation have been performed.
Have a look at these folders and the files that are in them.
.SH Exercises
